---
layout: post
title:  "Single Cell TBR1 Preliminary Evaluations"
date:   2021-05-07
parent: to_be_sorted
nav_order: 2
---

Directory: `/home/groups/oroaklab/nishida/sc_tmp1`

Ryan made a first pass through this data written up on [his blog](https://mulqueenr.github.io/tbr1/). I used his annotations and kept the old TSS enrichments (ArchR calculates its own internally). He made these after filtering so not all of the cells in the current ArchR project will have entries but these cells are confidently going to be filtered out. I went through ArchR up to about part 6 in the ArchR full manual. I made a broad first pass to get everything recorded, added Ryan’s existing stuff, plotted the metrics, filtered, and then did the dimensionality reduction and clustering. Then after the lab meeting I went and played around the filtering and iterative LSI options.

General metrics show low TSS enrichment and higher fragment sizes. [figure-01]

"The bump around 200 is tagmentation on either side of a nucleosome (they are about 185bp) below that is subnucleosomal, which can be a sign of over-tagmentation or poor chromatin structure. The linker region between nucleosome is 11-80ish no but usually on the much smaller size so you don't expect two tagmentation events between nucleosomes. I think in this case it is reflecting nucleosomes falling apart/off DNA."
<br>-Ryan

Various UMAPs with different methods, variables, and cutoffs. All of the methods reveal the characteristics of a blob. [figure-02]

\- Directory setup and bigwig creation, `run.txt`.
<br>- Setting up the Arrow file, `run_archr_1_setup.Rscript`.
<br>- Tiling matrix workaround and the main steps without filtering, `run_archr_2_process.Rscript`.
<br>- Adding annotations, plotting distributions, filtering, and dimred/clustering, `run_archr_3_filter.Rscript`.
<br>- Similar to preliminary pass but with harder filtering, `run_archr_4_harderfilter.Rscript`.
<br>- Harder filtering and alternative LSI calling, `run_archr_5_LSIfeatures_harderfilter.Rscript`.
<br>- All of the above but with also with filtering by fragment size, `run_archr_6_fragFilter_LSIfeatures_harderfilter.Rscript`.

With module R/4.0.4 this little bit will let you load up the current ArchR project for yourself:
```
# library, resource ArchR
library(presto)
library(ArchR)

# set env
addArchRGenome("mm10")
set.seed(25)

# reload the previous project
proj <- loadArchRProject(path = "/home/groups/oroaklab/nishida/sc_tmp1/ArchROutput/")
```

[figure-01]: https://ohsu.app.box.com/file/808812070910
[figure-02]: https://ohsu.app.box.com/file/808811822056