---
layout: post
title:  "SPARK RefSeq CDS and Splice Site Reference Generation"
date:   2021-05-28
parent: to_be_sorted
nav_order: 2
---

Directory: `/home/groups/oroaklab/nishida/spark_mosaic/refs/cds_splice_sites`
<br>Run: `run.txt`

The purpose of this is to establish the reference file created in hg19 for hg38: `/home/groups/oroaklab/refs/GRCh37/Homo_sapiens_refseq_cds_splice_positions.txt`. There are however no instructions concerning how it was made or the refseq version from which it was created.

To try to replicate this reference, every CDS and stop codon entry in the GTF will be pulled out to represent 'cds'. Every transcript with more than one exon will have a 'splice' entry for the two bases extending internally for each internal exon boundary.

Below is a comparison of the originally generated cds/splice reference from an unknown hg19 RefSeq version to a version of hg19 RefSeq from circa ~2015 using the logic above. There is greater than 99.5% similarity between these references with the ~2015 reference having more bases in all categories in general (likely because it is newer). Also included are the numbers from the 2021 RefSeq version for hg38 and the liftOver of that back to hg19. Similarity is closer to 95% here and also the hg38 version contains more bases in all categories relative to the other references. With such high concordance, I am comfortable with using this going forward as our reference.

SDTRF sites are taken from Annovar's hg38 genomicSuperDups and simpleRepeats databases (the same used for annotation of the mosaic list). Original hg19 contained 2,909,050 sites representing 8.104452% of the original sites. This hg38 references contains 3,476,939 sites representing 8.492237% of the original sites, a comparable amount.

Screenshot of spreadsheet: [figure-01]

Spreadsheet: [figure-02]

[figure-01]: https://www.dropbox.com/home/SPARK%20Mosaics/linked_files?preview=blog_SPARK_refseqCdsSplice_compare.png
[figure-02]: https://www.dropbox.com/home/SPARK%20Mosaics/linked_files?preview=SPARK_refseqCdsSplice_compare.xlsx
