---
layout: post
title:  "SPARK Preliminary Pass 04, Coverages and SNV Counts with Joint Family Coverages"
date:   2021-07-06
parent: to_be_sorted
nav_order: 2
---

This is a second pass through the data. This is a redo of parts 1, 2, and 2b with coverages coming from joint coverages (entire family, parents, and children). This is just on the quad simplex files.

The first markdown includes how the data was loaded, filtered, and subset and has no plots. The second markdown contains the plots.

Link to markdown:
<br>[Loading and Organizing, part 4a](https://www.dropbox.com/s/3ne6r98f4o1n3hi/prelim_burden_quadsimplex_04a.html?dl=0)
<br>[Plots of Coverages and SNV Counts, part 4b](https://www.dropbox.com/s/nytxd9qmoq882se/prelim_burden_quadsimplex_04b.html?dl=0)

Notes per section from 4b:
<br>4.5 - Decile Plots of Joint Coverage by Family - There is a bit more of a tail than by individual.
<br>4.6/4.7 - Decile Plots of Joint Parent/Child Coverage by Family - The tails are more observable in these.
<br>5.2 - Plot Genomic Coverage, Autosomal - Here is the comparison of joint coverage distributions alongside individual coverages. Joint coverage takes families into the 25-50% range whereas individuals are in the 50-75% range.
<br>6.2 and 6.3 - Plot SNV Counts, Mosaic Child - There is the single outlier proband with 9 counts.
<br>7.2 and 7.3 - Plot SNV Counts, Germline Child - There is a slight outlier sibling but it doesn't show up as much in the adjusted plots in 7.3.
<br>8.2 and 8.3 - Plot SNV Counts, Mosaic Parental Non-Trans - There is a bit of a tail in the maternal calls with few outliers that are still high even in the adjusted plots.
<br>9.2 and 9.3 - Plot SNV Counts, Mosaic Parental Trans - All the counts seem relatively low with no outliers but the members with 2 counts do also have lower coverage and they remain high in the adjusted plots.