---
layout: post
title:  "Two Week Update: 2020-11-09"
date:   2020-11-09
parent: archive_misc
nav_order: 2
---

Mosaics - The progress report was finished and the majority of the processing and organization of the data is now complete. There are errors somewhere in the categorical classification of the putative variants and the next step is to figure out from where they are occuring. For this initial pass I have only looked at simplex quad families and now I can take another pass through the scripts and code to work on the multiple quad and trio families. As I'm going through this next pass I will make a more formal writeup and recording of the methods and where everything is located here on this blog.

SPARK Single Cell / Networks - Start collapsing the original clusters into more discrete groups and get some loose pseudotime analyses done within the larger clusters. Take a look at the actual significance values of the enrichments being performed.

SciTools Updates - I want to make some quick fixes to beautify the TSS enrichment plots. Also I will add hg19 into the TSS enrichment options. I have some DA updates that can get pushed as well. I also want to do another quick cleaning and updating of the dependencies. And I have handful of code related to paralellizing some operations like creating the matrix and TSS enrichment but I think I will just put them up on this blog rather than pushing them directly into the scitools code (since who knows how we will be using SLURM and exacloud in the future).

Coussen's - Get in touch with Christian to see where things were left and pass off the remaining pseudotime analyses.

Misc - Write up something for the Master's level job posting. Check in with Sally about the MIP processing. Interview with Ellen. And I'm going to mess around with the Box API because I think moving files from the cluster directly to Box or vice versa would be convenient (gets around having to both download and then upload using my own slower bandwidth).
